# Convert Your Private Key Using PuTTYgen

PuTTY does not natively support the private key format (`.pem`) generated by Amazon EC2. PuTTY has a tool named PuTTYgen, which can convert keys to the required PuTTY format (`.ppk`). You must convert your private key into this format (`.ppk`) before attempting to connect to your instance using PuTTY. How to acquire the `.pem` file required for this step may be found in the [Windows General Prerequisite](./Windows/WinGenRequisites/WinGenRequisites.md)

## Converting a Private Key
1. Open PuTTY
    * From the **Start** menu, select **All Programs**, select PuTTY -> PuTTYgen
2. Under **Type of key to generate**, choose RSA.
3. Choose **Load**.
    * By default, PuTTYgen displays only files with the extension `.ppk`.
    * In the drop down menu, change the selection from `PuTTY Private Key Files (*.ppk)` to `All Files (*.*)`
4. Select your `.pem` file for the key pair that you specified when you launched your instance and choose **Open**, then choose **OK**.
5. To save the key in the format that PuTTY can use, choose **Save private key**. PuTTYgen displays a warning about saving the key without a passphrase. Choose **Yes**.
    * A passphrase on a private key is an extra layer of protection. Even if your private key is discovered, it can't be used without the passphrase. The downside to using a passphrase is that it makes automation harder because human intervention is needed to log on to an instance, or to copy files to an instance.
6. Specify the same name for the key that you used for the key pair (for example, `myName-key-pair`). PuTTY automatically adds the `.ppk` file extension.

Your private key is now in the correct format for use with PuTTY. You can now connect to your instance using PuTTY's SSH client. This step should only have to be done once if done correctly.